**BBBP.csv** - from moleculenet.ai/datasets-1
( Martins, I. F.; Teixeira, A. L.; Pinheiro, L.; Falcao, A. O. Journal  of  Chemical  Information and Modeling 2012, 52, 1686–1697.)
Dataset of 2039 compounds for blood brain barrier penetration (permeability). As there is a seperating membrane between brain extracellular fluid and blood that blocks a high degree of hormones, neurotransmitors and drugs. This stands as a big issue in development of drugs targeting central nervous system.

**clintox.csv** - from moleculenet.ai/datasets-1
( Novick, P. A.; Ortiz, O. F.; Poelman, J.; Abdulhay, A. Y.; Pande, V. S. PLOS  ONE 2013,8. ,
Aggregate Analysis of ClincalTrials.gov (AACT) Database.
https://www.ctti-clinicaltrials.org/aact-database, Accessed:  2017-09-27 )
Dataset of 1491 compounds/drugs with known chemical structures that have been approved by the FDA (compiled from SWEETLEAD database) or have failed clinical trials for toxicity reasons (compiled from AACT database). 

**HIV.csv** - from moleculenet.ai/datasets-1
(AIDS Antiviral Screen Data. https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/NCIDTPdata/ AIDS+Antiviral+Screen+Data, Accessed:  2017-09-27)
Database of 41,127 compounds with tested ability to to at least partially inhibit replication of HIV virus. Original database split compounds into three classes (inactive, active and moderately active), but active and moderately active classes have been combined as it is more suitable for discovering new categories of HIV inhibitors.

**sider.csv** - from moleculenet.ai/datasets-1
( Kuhn, M.; Letunic, I.; Jensen, L. J.; Bork, P. Nucleic Acids Research 2016, 44, D1075–D41079,
Medical  Dictionary  for  Regulatory  Activities. http://www.meddra.org/, Accessed: 2017-09-27)
Database of 1427 compounds/drugs that have been approved and are marketed with their adverse drug reaction. SIDER stands for The Side Effect Resource. Side effects have been clustered into 27 groups following MedDRA classifiction.

**pcba.7z** - from moleculenet.ai/datasets-1
(Ramsundar, B.;  Kearnes, S.;  Riley, P.;  Webster, D.; Konerding, D.;  Pande, V. arXiv preprint arXiv:1502.02072 2015)
Database of 437,929 small compounds selected from PubChem BioAssay with their biological activities generated by hihg-throughput screening. Contains missing data in most of the columns. Still it was used to benchmark machine learning algorithms.